# Human Readable [The AnVIL Data Submission Findability Subset Data Dictionary](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1D0L5wm5pnpLKYqakYm9tyy-VmP5oJmGR/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=102875356054992937278&rtpof=true&sd=true):
   * The data dictionary is a human readable guide to the data model to orient data submitters and explain the schema, including its own README.
   * The machine-readable schema also contain the definitions and datatypes, though more information about *how* to structure the tables is provided in the data dictionary.

# Machine Readable Artifacts: The AnVIL Data Submission Findability Subset Schema:
   * The schema is written in LinkML/YAML. Modify this file if you want to update all of the machine readable artifacts in this directory. You will need to install linkml to generate artifacts from this file. [LinkML Documentation](linkml.io)
   * The JSON-Schema file contains most of the information contained in the LinkML schema, and is both machine readable and human readable. This is best if you want to import the schema. Generate this file with `gen-json-schema`.
   * The template xlsx file. This is useful to prepare data for submission to AnVIL. Generate this file with `gen-excel`.
   * The example xlsx file. A simple example file with one row per table. This is a customized version of the template file.
   * The erdiagram. A human and machine readable text file for generating entity-relationship diagrams. Generate this file with `gen-erdiagram`.
   * The SVG file. An image of an ER diagram generated by mermaid from the erdiagram file. Generate this file with mermaid chart (or lucidchart): https://www.mermaidchart.com/ 
   * The TDR-JSON file. The terra data repository's proprietary JSON format for creating datasets. Use this if you want to create a dataset on terra to upload your data to. Generate this file with the custom JSON-schema conversion script: https://github.com/DataBiosphere/biocore-data-model/blob/main/content/tools/python/convert_to_tdr_schema.ipynb
   * The JSONLD file (experimental). The schema represented in the JSON-linked-data format. This contains references to ontologies and dynamic enumerations. Use this if you want to be able to validate your data against the schema, by using dynamic enuremations and links to vocabularies on the web. This should be considered 'advanced use' of the Submission Findability Subset Schema. Generate this file with `gen-jsonld`.

    │AnVILDataSubmissionFindabilitySubset.linkml.yaml                           
    │                                                                           
    │───AnVILDataSubmissionFindabilitySubset.schema.json                        
    │   │                                                                       
    │   └──AnVILDataSubmissionFindabilitySubset.tdr.json                        
    │                                                                           
    │───AnVILDataSubmissionFindabilitySubset.template.xlsx
    │   │                                                                       
    │   └──AnVILDataSubmissionFindabilitySubset.example.xlsx     
    │                                                                           
    │───AnVILDataSubmissionFindabilitySubset.erdiagram                          
    │   │                                                                       
    │   └──AnVILDataSubmissionFindabilitySubset.svg                             
    │                                                                           
    └───AnVILDataSubmissionFindabilitySubset.jsonld   
